Uncle Sam has a debt problem and that's
when you have to pick up the bill you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you you know that the US has a
debt problem it's obvious you see it all
the time the debt keeps going up and up
and up we go to 34 trillion eventually
it's going to be 50 trillion let's keep
it going let's not stop the party here
we want the music to keep playing right
well there's a problem here and that is
you cannot issue an unlimited amount of
debt without somebody being there on the
other end to buy it there needs to be a
buyer when the US is selling okay and if
you don't have that well there is one
option and that is the Federal Reserve
can monetize that debt they can
basically print money to buy that up and
they would suggest to you the analysts
those in the government many YouTube ERS
that doing so is simply just numbers on
a computer screen it's not real and it
doesn't create inflation look at Japan
they did it so
successfully it isn't a worry well of
course that's not true and we're going
to talk about that today let's go first
things first the FED would only cut
interest rates to help the US service
its soaring debt
and I don't agree with that but
certainly when they increase interest
rates and right now the interest alone
is over a trillion dollars in interest
and I've said this countless times
interest is getting paid before they're
building your roads and bridges before
they're helping out
people before all that the interest on
this nonsensical debt
is is getting paid think about this and
and the by the way depending on what
happens the trajectory here there has
been talk about it getting to $1.6
trillion by the end of
2024 purely in interest imagine how this
unproductive weight on your back like if
you're going to go and you're going to
exercise you got a sack on your back
okay and you're going to carry that
you're going to Ruck and you're going to
you know walk and
Hike you put that on you get growth you
get better endurance you get strength
because you have that weight in your
back but what if it had no benefit to
you
whatsoever that's what this is that's
what that interest payment is it doesn't
benefit you it doesn't benefit I and
there's an issue as you dig in a little
bit
deeper from the way we have thought
about it the last 15 years and I think
for longer too there is no economic
rationale for cutting that's what
they're saying the reason they might cut
is because the US government can't
afford it and there's a much scarier
reason to have to
cut
like right now people are suffering so
bad like if they wanted to actually
resolve this they would have needed to
bring interest rates up let's I'm just
going to Ballpark a number let's say 10%
not
5% but more like 10% intentionally cause
a
recession let some businesses
fail let housing prices let everything
come to a
standstill yes that sucks that hurts
that's
painful but by now where we are by now
the economy would be so much
better instead you create a wor scenario
for the vast majority of people longer
term what's better you know what do you
think well who will buy all the
treasuries you'll buy all the treasuries
now I don't know if that's a little meme
image here I assume it is um but it's
funny it's really
funny but what we're dealing with is
actually not funny but I thought I
wanted to show that because let's have a
little bit of a laugh let's lighten it
up a little bit this subject
is it you know it's
big let's talk about it okay equities
and guilts barely get a mention goes on
talking about the US Treasury bonds they
want to talk about the forthcoming
treasury tsunami and what it might mean
for everything this is treasury tsunami
okay okay so the government wants to
spend a lot of money in order to do that
they have to you know basically issue
all this debt they wrap imagine like
they they want to spend money okay well
we need somebody to buy up this that
this debt that we'll create in doing so
they as long as they can get buyers they
can spend as much money as they want but
the more that they issue uh likely they
have to give it at a higher yield so so
what does that mean they have to give a
higher
percentage um as they issue more and
more and more and more okay if they were
going to issue tomorrow 10 quadrillion
dollars tomorrow at an
auction well they wouldn't have enough
buyers unless unless it was at a super
attractive price so let's just say it
was 4%
tomorrow they could sell those at 4% but
if they wanted to do 10 qu quadrillion
no no maybe 4% wouldn't be a good enough
thing investors wouldn't come and buy it
all up they might buy some but if they
were offering it at 50% a US Government
debt hey wow okay I'll buy in all right
now it's a different story so there's
this sort
of playing that they do with the numbers
to make sure that they can get enough
buyers at their auction so that they can
fund all of this spending China had been
buying an enormous amount all these
years other countries doing it as well
but China has been holding less and less
and less and less they're like around
like 700 billion
today down approximately half from where
they were at their Peak so they are
continuing to sell it off the treasury
market is the most important Capital
Market in the world and Supply is
projected to be pretty huge over the
next few decades in fact the CBO
forecast that government debt to GDP is
on an explosively upward path okay we
know that we've seen this chart before
100 times uh that is true and of course
the interest rate associated with it is
is beyond imaginable all right um they
get into more things you could see where
exactly the purchases by sector are
there financial institutions there's the
Federal Reserve which is in the negative
now you look at pensions and so on right
okay well they get into the absolute
fact without the Federal Reserve
there you you have other countries that
are doing this and yes that's great um
with with the US continuing to keep
interest rates High their yields on
their debt over overall are very
attractive they're very attractive
because you know the US is compared to
other countries is still strong the US
dollar is strong I can I can trust that
they're going to pay that debt back to
me and so I'm willing to put money there
because I'm going to get it back versus
like Greece for instance all right and
so that's what's happening that's what
what we're seeing at this time and if
they start cutting interest rates though
well then that's that's a different
story right because they going to get a
less attractive investment and other
countries might start looking
better right okay um they're talking
about this more and more you could see
the you know the thinking of what what
they are doing what they're trying to
achieve the Federal Reserve at this time
is saying hey we'll leave the interest
rates at this point the only problem is
the national debt itself is continuing
to expand so there's like this there's
tugging and pulling that's happening and
that is of course a huge issue for a lot
of people because um they're being
burdened by it one way should perform
and what do we have it's that
um for people they are going to have to
buy this up actual normal regular
everyday
people because there's a problem you
don't have enough investors globally to
buy up the amount of debt that they want
to
issue right they're saying
here um they explain treasury auctions
are structured so they can't actually
fail but that's not to say that yields
won't rise on a tsunami of Supply so
maybe this time is different H right and
so we don't know what's going to happen
with this but understand that the what
they're looking for here is that regular
average Everyday People funds any type
of mutual fund hedge funds any type of
investors within the United States have
to are buying up this
stuff or Federal Reserve has to and when
they do that your currency's finished
finished because it's always a cycle and
it gets worse and worse very quickly
very
quickly China may be preparing to deploy
an economic nuclear option this is now
adding to the whole Fiasco look at this
they're just basically saying this
suggestion China is preparing for
something major that seems increasingly
obvious judging from the stockpiling of
important resources could it be that
they are preparing a major oneoff
devaluation of the
CNY now that would be interesting that
would make their exports more
attractive in this time in which they
really need to focus on that so they
could devalue their currency they start
exporting everywhere to the world the
world start saying China China give it
give it to me give it to me that China
has has purchased I've read the numbers
on on previous videos before insane
amounts of every commodity you can think
of they're just stockpiling like
crazy and it's possible I I don't know
but it's possible okay so add that to
the
equation everyone in their mother is
talking about unsustainable us fiscal
deficit and debt take a look at off
balance sheet pension entitlements in
southern Europe at 500% of the GDP
combined with collapsing demographics
it's severe debt crisis in the
making you look around and see the
different countries they're all
struggling in this regard no question
about it um I'm not by pointing out
what's going on in the US I'm not saying
that Europe is better please please
don't don't get me wrong here they are
all in trouble and I've heard the
suggestions oh there's going to be a Deb
Jubilee no no no not at all what happens
usually if we have governments that go
bankrupt when governments go bankrupt in
a way they depends how they do
so usually what happens is a
monetization of that debt that
monetization devalue your currency
significantly and you will be punished
as a result of it people think ah
there's going to be this deflation so
I'm G to be able to actually get stuff
for pennies on the dollar because of
this this is fantastic this is great oh
no no no not
you the globalist elite will they're
going to be able to get deals you can't
that's the
difference and it's happened many times
before Powell is talking about the
shrinking of the balance sheet wanting
to be smooth uh they don't want it to
happen as it says doesn't want to wind
up with financial Market termal the way
that we did it last time and the only
other time we've ever done this
certainly they don't want to do what
happened before the market didn't like
it they want to make sure that
reserves are maintained uh because that
was the complaint last time $3.5
trillion on the FED balance sheet
apparently was a uh spooky thing thing
for the markets yeah we're not going
anywhere close to that but what is close
is that Tiff maam who's the equivalent
to drum powerwell in Canada said we are
getting closer to cutting interest rates
we do see renewed downward momentum in
underlying inflation that's right just
ignore Energy prices just ignore housing
prices just ignore food prices just
ignore all prices and yes your number
that has no significance whatsoever is
in fact declining that's right that's
what we do in Canada um it's it's like
uh Disneyland something like that it's
or maybe a Disney movie it's it's
um it's not not real but hey that's
what's going on family offices are
looking beyond the stock market for
higher returns so this is interesting so
the this is you know wealthy clients um
you see that they have 46% % of their
total portfolio in alternate Investments
alternates include private Equity real
estate venture capital hedge funds and
private credit unlike stocks
Alternatives such as private equity and
private companies having more gradual
valuation change smoothing out
volatility the rich people do not invest
in seven shares of Amazon okay let's be
clear about that yes there are some that
do some do that right that's like their
whole business is that but but generally
they want the stability they want that
at this time especially okay and so
that's what we need to start thinking
about um I personally prefer business
because you have control over it much
more control over it um and when you're
managing a portfolio that's like $87 or
whatever it doesn't really matter um it
you know it's a very different world if
they're managing hundreds and hundreds
of millions or maybe perhaps billions of
dollarss they have to do things
differently they might own some stocks
they might have a 401k and all that but
that's a part of the puzzle uh what
we're seeing right now is of course a
crisis it's a crisis that's going on and
you have to manage your portfolio much
better no matter how small it is you
have to do better about it um there are
things that you can do as an individual
I talk about the pillars of prosperity
pillars of prosperity is number one
trying your best to in increase your
income and number two trying to become
more self-sufficient those are the two
pillars of prosperity I have a video
about that called the pillars of
prosperity I also have my uh live
classes the live classes I teach people
on the Friday session um we talk about
all all the you know for over two hours
all the methods that we you know look at
traditional Finance looking at investing
and so on on the Sunday business live we
talk about how to build an online
business one that has a presence all
over the world in order to be able to
have currency diversification
geographical diversification in in all
kinds okay all kinds and multiple
streams of income and this is the type
of thing that you just can't get
anywhere else especially in the niche uh
that I'm in what do they tell you buy my
course and I'm going to be able to you
know solve your problem because you're
going to learn how to trade from me
nobody has learned how to trade from a
options course that the other guy the
other YouTubers are teaching you okay um
that's just a simple matter of fact
okay simple fact if you want uh to know
the truth you can check my uh I have my
playlists on my channel tons of free
stuff in there tons of free stuff okay
you don't have to pay a dime that's it I
hope you appreciate this information if
you did hit that thumbs up if you hated
it leave a comment down below and tell
me off all right I'll see you tomorrow
take care